# Sternberg

## About the Task

The Sternberg paradigm requires maintenance of a memory set of multiple items (updated on each trial) across a short delay period (3-5 sec) to determine whether a subsequent probe is a target (member of current trial memory set) or not (see [(Sternberg, 1966)](publications/sternberg_memory_s66.pdf) for the original paradigm). This paradigm has been employed extensively in the working memory literature to explore load effects (# items in memory set), and has attractive qualities for neuroimaging (relative to other paradigms such as N-back) in that it can be used to decompose within-trial activation dynamics [19, 89]. Under high-load conditions (>= 5 memory set items) participants are off-ceiling in terms of performance accuracy, and are likely to vary in the use of proactive (maintenance and target-detection focused) versus reactive (probe-based retrieval) control strategies for performance [90]. We will employ the high-load Sternberg (5-8 items) for the baseline session. In a prior study [89], we varied working memory load, by contrasting a high-load block with a low-load block (2-5 items) that nevertheless overlapped in load on a critical subset of trials (5 item sets, 25%). In the low-load block, proactive control appeared to increase, as evidenced by improved recognition accuracy and delay-related activation dynamics in lateral PFC (increasing rather than decreasing) on critical trials (Figure 3c). Based on these findings, we will use the low-load Sternberg in the proactive session, using probe accuracy and delay-related activity dynamics as the signatures of proactive control. The low-load effects were hypothesized to be due to expectancy; because memory set items were not presented simultaneously, control strategy had to be selected during encoding. In the current protocol, we will use a similar encoding manipulation (presenting memory set items across two frames to increase load uncertainty) in all conditions. We [19], and others [91, 92], have also explored the use of probe recency manipulations to examine reactive control in the Sternberg. On recent negative probe trials (probe was a member of prior trial, but not current trial memory set), RT interference and probe-related activity in ventrolateral PFC is increased [89, 91, 92]. We found that increasing the frequency of recent negative probes modulates RT interference and PFC activation dynamics, but differentially for high and low gF individuals [19]. With low-loads, high gF individuals showed a shift towards proactive control (increased delay-related PFC activation) while low gF individuals showed increased reactive control. A promising hypothesis (that we will test during development) is that under high-load conditions, the predominant modulation will be in reactive control. The baseline and proactive sessions will include low- frequency, recent negative probes (20%), while a high-frequency recent negative probe (80%) variant will be used for the reactive control session. RT interference and activation on recent negative probes will be used as behavioral and dynamic neural signatures of reactive control.

